Heap:

	A heap is a specialized tree-based data structure which is essentially an almost
	complete tree that satisfies the heap property: in a max heap, for any given
	node C, if P is a parent node of C, then the key (the value) of P is greater
	than or equal to the key of C. In a min heap, the key of P is less than or equal
	to the key of C. The node at the "top" of the heap (with no parents) is
	called the root node.

	The heap is one maximally efficient implementation of an abstract data type
	called a priority queue, and in fact, priority queues are often referred to as
	"heaps", regardless of how they may be implemented. In a heap, the highest (or
	lowest) priority element is always stored at the root. However, a heap is not a
	sorted structure; it can be regarded as being partially ordered. A heap is a
	useful data structure when it is necessary to repeatedly remove the object with
	the highest (or lowest) priority. 

Min-Max-Heap:

	a min-max heap is a complete binary tree data structure which combines the
	usefulness of both a min-heap and a max-heap, that is, it provides constant
	time retrieval and logarithmic time removal of both the minimum and maximum
	elements in it. This makes the min-max heap a very useful data structure
	to implement a double-ended priority queue. Like binary min-heaps and
	max-heaps, min-max heaps support logarithmic insertion and deletion and can
	be built in linear time. Min-max heaps are often represented implicitly
	in an array; hence it's referred to as an implicit data structure.

	The min-max heap property is: each node at an even level in the tree is less
	than all of its descendants, while each node at an odd level in the tree is
	greater than all of its descendants.

	Description:

		A min-max heap is a complete binary tree containing alternating min (or
		even) and max (or odd) levels. Even levels are for example 0, 2, 4, etc,
		and odd levels are respectively 1, 3, 5, etc. We assume in the next
		points that the root element is at the first level, i.e., 0.

		Each node in a min-max heap has a data member (usually called key) whose
		value is used to determine the order of the node in the min-max heap.
		
		The root element is the smallest element in the min-max heap.
		
		One of the two elements in the second level, which is a max (or odd)
		level, is the greatest element in the min-max heap
		
		Let x be any node in a min-max heap.
			
			If x is on a min (or even) level, then x . k e y is the minimum key
			among all keys in the subtree with root x.
			
			If x is on a max (or odd) level, then x . k e y is the maximum key
			among all keys in the subtree with root x.
	
		A node on a min (max) level is called a min (max) node.

		A max-min heap is defined analogously; in such a heap, the maximum value is
		stored at the root, and the smallest value is stored at one of the root's
		children.

A Binary Heap is a Binary Tree with following properties.
	
	It’s a complete tree (All levels are completely filled except possibly the
	last level and the last level has all keys as left as possible). This
	property of Binary Heap makes them suitable to be stored in an array.

	A Binary Heap is either Min Heap or Max Heap. In a Min Binary Heap, the key
	at root must be minimum among all keys present in Binary Heap. The same
	property must be recursively true for all nodes in Binary Tree. Max Binary
	Heap is similar to MinHeap.