Computer network types by spatial scope:

	Nanoscale
	Near-field (NFC)
	Body (BAN)
	Peronsal (PAN)
	Near-me (NAN)
	Local (LAN)
		Home (HAN)
		Storage (SAN)
		Wireless (WLAN)
	Compus (CAN)
	Backbone
	Metropolitan (MAN)
		Municipal wireless (MWN)
	Wide (WAN)
	Cloud (IAN)
	Internet
	Interplanetary Internet

(How does the internet work)
Internet:

	Is the global system of interconnected computer networks that uses the internet protocol suite to communicate between networks and devices. It is a network of networks that consists of private, public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope, linked by a broad array of electronic wireless, and optical networking technologies. The internet carries a vast range of information resouces and services, such as the inter-linked hypertext documents and applications of the world wide web, electronic mail, telephony, and file sharing.

	Is the backbone of the web, the technical infrastructure that makes the web possible

	Each computer on a network is connected to a router. This router routes and forwards traffic from a given computer A that wants to send a message to computer B. 

	A modem is needed to connect the network to the telephone insfrastructure so it turns the traffic from our network into information manageable by the telephone insfrastructure and vise versa

	To send traffic from network A to network B the modems of both networks will connect to an internet service provider that manages special routers that are all linked together and can also access other isps' routers

	Any computer linked to a network has a unique address that identifies it called an IP address (Internet Protocol)

IP Addresses

	An Internet Protocol address is a numerical label such as 192.168.1.10 that is connected to a computer network that uses the internet protocol for communication.

	Serves two main functions: host or network interface identification and location addressing

	IPv4, Internet Protocol version 4 defines an IP address as a 32-bit number. However, because of the growth of the Internet and the depletion of available IPv4 addresses, a new version of IP (IPv6) uses 128bit addresses.

Examples:
IPv4 172.16.254.1
IPv6 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334

The size of the routing prefix of the address is designated in CIDR notation by suffixing the address with the number of significant bits, e.g. 192.168.1.15/24, which is equivalent to the historically used subnet 255.255.255.0

The IP address space is managed globally by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), and by five regional internet registries (RIRs) responseible in their designated territories for assignment to local internet registries, such as internet service providers, and other end users. Exhausted at the IANA level since 2011. Some IPv4 addresses are reserved for private networks and are not globally unique

Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA):

	Is a standards organization that oversees global IP address allocation, autonomous system number allocation, root zone management in the Domain Name System (DNS), media types, and other internet protocol-related symbols and internet numbers

Regional Internet Registeries (RIR):

	Is an organization that manages the allocation and registration of internet number resources, given by the IANA, within a region of the world. Internet number resources include ip addresses and autonomous system numbers. Responsibility for management to a registry for each of five regions of the world.

	The regional internet registries are informally liaised through the unincorporated Number Resource Organization (NRO), which is a coordinating body to act on matters of global importance

Regional Registries:

	- The African Network Information Center (AFRINIC) serves Africa
	- The American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) serves Antarctica, Canada, parts of the Caribbean, and the United States
	- The Asia-Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC) serves East Asia, Oceania, South Asia, and Southeast Asia
	- The LatinAmerica and Caribbean Network Information Centre (LACNIC) serves most of the Caribbean and all of Latin America
	- The Reseaux IP Europeens Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC) serves Europe, Central Asia, Russia, and West Asia

Autonomous System*Separate note:

	Is a collection of connected internet protocol routing prefixes under the control of one or more network operators on behalf of a single administraive entity or domain, that presents a common and clearly defined routing policy to the internet

DNS Root Zone*might be duplicate*:


Local Internet Registries:

	Is an organization that assigns parts of its allocation from a regional internet registry to other customers, most are also internet service providers

Internet Service Providers (ISP):

	An Internet service provider (ISP) is an organization that provides many different services for accessing, using, or participating in the Internet. Internet service providers can be organized in various forms, such as commercial, community-owned, non-profit, or otherwise privately owned.

	Internet services typically provided by ISPs can include Internet access, Internet transit, domain name registration, web hosting, Usenet service, and colocation.

	An ISP typically serves as the access point or the gateway that provides a user, access to everything available on the Internet.

Intranets and Extranets:

	Intranets are private networks that are restricted to members of a particular organization. They are commonly used to provide a portal for members to securely access shared resources, collaborate and communicate. For example, an organization's intranet might host web pages for sharing department or team information, shared drives for managing key documents and files, portals for performing business adminstration tasks, and collaboration tools like wikis, discussion boards, and messaging Systems

	Extranets are very similar to Intranets, except they open all or part of a private network to allow sharing and collaboration with other organizations. They are typically used to safely and securely share information with clients and stakeholders who work closely with a business. Often their function are similar to those provided by an intranet: information and file sharing, collaboration tools, discussion boards, etc.

	Both intranets and extranets run on the same kind of instrastructure as the internet, and use the same protocols. They can therefore be accessed by authorised members from different physical locations