This layer is the protocol layer that transfers data between nodes on a network
segment across the physical layer

Provides the functional and procedural means to transfer data between network
entities and may also provide the means to detect and possibly correct errors
that can occur in the physical layer

Concerned with local delivery of frames between nodes on the same level of the
network. Data-link frames, as these protocol data units are called, do not cross
the boundaries of a local area network.
    - A protocol data unit is a single unit of information transmitted among
    peer entities in a network 
        - Composed of protocol-specific control information and user data 
    - A frame is a digital data transmission unit, in packet switched systems, a
    frame is a simple container for a single network packet. 
        - A frame typically includes frame synchronization features consisting
        of a sequence of bits or symbols that indicate to the receiver the
        beginning and end of the payload data within the stream of symbols or
        bits it receives
    - A network packet is a formatted unit of data carried by a packet-switched
    network. A packet consists of control information and user data; the latter
    is known as the payload
        - Control information, found in packet headers and trailers (footers),
        provides data for delivering the payload (e.g., source and destination
        network addresses, error detection codes, or sequencing information)

Data link protocols focuses on local delivery, addressing, and media arbitration
between parties contending for access to a medium, without concern for their
ultimate destination

Specify how devices detect and recover from frame collisions, when devices
attempt to use a medium simultaneously.

Example: ethernet, point-to-point protocol, high level data link scontrol
(HDLC), and advanced data communication control procedures (ADCCP)

Data Link: Defines the means of connecting one location to another for the
purpose of transmitting and receiving digital information (data communication).
These are governed by a link protocol enabling digital to be transferred from a
data source to a data sink
    - A data sink, sink, or event sink is a class or function designed to
    received incoming events from another object or function. Implemeted as
    callbacks in C++, other languages have built-in support for sinks by
    allowing events to be fired to delegate functions

The data link layer provides node-to-node data transfer—a link between two
directly connected nodes. It detects and possibly corrects errors that may occur
in the physical layer. It defines the protocol to establish and terminate a
connection between two physically connected devices. It also defines the
protocol for flow control between them.

IEEE 802 divides the data link layer into two sublayers:[21]

    Medium access control (MAC) layer – responsible for controlling how devices
    in a network gain access to a medium and permission to transmit data.
    Logical link control (LLC) layer – responsible for identifying and
    encapsulating network layer protocols, and controls error checking and frame
    synchronization.

The MAC and LLC layers of IEEE 802 networks such as 802.3 Ethernet, 802.11
Wi-Fi, and 802.15.4 ZigBee operate at the data link layer.

The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) is a data link layer protocol that can operate
over several different physical layers, such as synchronous and asynchronous
serial lines.

The ITU-T G.hn standard, which provides high-speed local area networking over
existing wires (power lines, phone lines and coaxial cables), includes a
complete data link layer that provides both error correction and flow control by
means of a selective-repeat sliding-window protocol.

Security, specifically (authenticated) encryption, at this layer can be applied
with MACSec. 