Physical Layer: Defines the means of transmitting a stream of raw bits over a
physical data link connecting network nodes
    - A node is either a redistribution point or a communication endpoint. A
    physical network node is an electronic device that is attached to a network,
    and is capable of creating, receiving, or transmitting information over a
    communication channel

The bitstream may be grouped into code words or symbols and converted to a
physical signal that is transmitted over a transmission medium.
    - A bitstream/bytestream is a sequence of bits/bytes.

Provides an electrical, mechanical, and procedural interface to the transmission
medium.

There are two main types of transmission media: Guided media: waves are guided
along a solid medium such as a transmission line (twisted pair, coaxial cable,
optical fiber)

Unguided media: transmission and reception are achieved by means of an antenna
(radio)

The shapes and properties of the electrical connectors, the frequencies to
broadcast on, the line code to use and similar low-level parameters, are
specified by the physical layer
    - A line code is a pattern of voltage, current, or photons used to represent
    digital data transmitted down a transmission line



There are at least three types of basic data-link configurations that can be
conceived of and used:
    - Simplex communications, most commonly meaning all communications in one
    direction only - Half-duplex communications, meaning communications in both
    directions, but not both ways simultaneously - Duplex communications,
    communications in both directions simultaneously

The physical layer is responsible for the transmission and reception of
unstructured raw data between a device and a physical transmission medium. It
converts the digital bits into electrical, radio, or optical signals. Layer
specifications define characteristics such as voltage levels, the timing of
voltage changes, physical data rates, maximum transmission distances, modulation
scheme, channel access method and physical connectors. This includes the layout
of pins, voltages, line impedance, cable specifications, signal timing and
frequency for wireless devices. Bit rate control is done at the physical layer
and may define transmission mode as simplex, half duplex, and full duplex. The
components of a physical layer can be described in terms of a network topology.
Physical layer specifications are included in the specifications for the
ubiquitous Bluetooth, Ethernet, and USB standards. An example of a less
well-known physical layer specification would be for the CAN standard. 