Network Layers:
Application (Layer 7) Services that are used with end user applications e.g. smtp, http, dns, cdns
Presentation (Layer 6) Formats the data so that it can be viewed by the user. Encrypt and decrypt e.g. jpg, gif, https, ssl, tls
Session (Layer 5) Establishes/ends connections between two hosts. e.g. NetBIOS, pptp
Transport (Layer 4) Responsible for the transport protocol and error handling e.g. TCP/UDP
Network (Layer 3) Reads the ip address form the packet. e.g. Routers, layer3 switches
Data Link (Layer 2) Reads the mac address from the data packet. e.g. Switches
Physical (Layer 1) Send data on to the physical wire. e.g. Hubs, NICS, cable

Network Protocol
    - Set of rules that define how a message is structured for transmission
    - Receiver can decode the message by following the same rules

Protocol Design
    - A network protocol connects one layer on one device to the same layer on another device
        - Each layer adds control information to the message
    - Physical layer ultimately carries a stream of bits containing the message
    - Example: Connecting from app layer on one device to another app layer on a different device. Started by descending down the layer through the physical link then back up the layers to the app layer

Protocol Stack
    - Each network device has an implementation of each protocol at each layer
    - Messages are wrapped in, then extracted from, these protocols

Example Sending (L5 & L6 aren't used in practice)
| Application (Layer 7) <------HTTP/HTTPS-------->  ^ Application (Layer 7)
| Transport (Layer 4)   <-------TCP/UDP---------->  | Transport (Layer 4)
| Network (Layer 3)     <----------IP------------>  | Network (Layer 3)
| Data Link (Layer 2)   <-------Ethernet--------->  | Data Link (Layer 2)
| Physical (Layer 1)    <--1000BASE-T Copper----->  | Physical (Layer 1)
V---------------------------------------------------^

Example Sending a Message
    A message is sent to the app layer to be packed into transport protocol structures
    Transport protocol structures are packed into network protocol datagrams
    Network protocol datagrams are packed into data link protocol frames
    Data link protocol frames are converted to a bit stream and set

Example Receiving a Message:
    Data link protocol frames are extracted from the physical layer bit stream
    Network protocol datagrams are extracted from data link protocol frames
    Transport protocol structures are extracted from network protocol datagrams
    Original message is extracted from transport protocol structures

Host
7 	Application 	Data 	High-level APIs, including resource sharing, remote file access

6 	Presentation 	Data    Translation of data between a networking service and an application; including character encoding, data compression and encryption/decryption

5 	Session 	    Data    Managing communication sessions, i.e., continuous exchange of information in the form of multiple back-and-forth transmissions between two nodes

4 	Transport 	    Data    Segment, Datagram 	Reliable transmission of data segments between points on a network, including segmentation, acknowledgement and multiplexing

Media
3 	Network 	    Packet 	Structuring and managing a multi-node network, including addressing, routing and traffic control

2 	Data link 	    Frame 	Reliable transmission of data frames between two nodes connected by a physical layer

1 	Physical 	    Bit, Symbol 	Transmission and reception of raw bit streams over a physical medium 

Application layer

    BGP DHCP(v6) DNS FTP HTTP HTTPS IMAP LDAP MGCP MQTT NNTP NTP POP PTP ONC/RPC RTP RTSP RIP SIP SMTP SNMP SSH Telnet TLS/SSL XMPP more...

Transport layer

    TCP UDP DCCP SCTP RSVP more...

Internet layer

    IP (IPv4 IPv6) ICMP(v6) ECN IGMP IPsec more...

Link layer

    ARP NDP OSPF Tunnels
        L2TP PPP MAC
        Ethernet Wi-Fi DSL ISDN FDDI