SOAP:

	SOAP (formerly an acronym for Simple Object Access Protocol) is a messaging
	protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the
	implementation of web services in computer networks. It uses XML Information
	Set for its message format, and relies on application layer protocols, most
	often Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), although some legacy systems
	communicate over Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), for message
	negotiation and transmission.

	SOAP allows developers to invoke processes running on disparate operating
	systems (such as Windows, macOS, and Linux) to authenticate, authorize, and
	communicate using Extensible Markup Language (XML). Since Web protocols like
	HTTP are installed and running on all operating systems, SOAP allows clients
	to invoke web services and receive responses independent of language and
	platforms.

REST:

	Representational state transfer (REST) is a software architectural style
	that was created to guide the design and development of the architecture for
	the World Wide Web. REST defines a set of constraints for how the
	architecture of an Internet-scale distributed hypermedia system, such as the
	Web, should behave. The REST architectural style emphasises the scalability
	of interactions between components, uniform interfaces, independent
	deployment of components, and the creation of a layered architecture to
	facilitate caching components to reduce user-perceived latency, enforce
	security, and encapsulate legacy systems.

	REST has been employed throughout the software industry and is a widely
	accepted set of guidelines for creating stateless, reliable web APIs. A web
	API that obeys the REST constraints is informally described as RESTful.
	RESTful web APIs are typically loosely based on HTTP methods to access
	resources via URL-encoded parameters and the use of JSON or XML to transmit
	data.

	"Web resources" were first defined on the World Wide Web as documents or
	files identified by their URLs. Today, the definition is much more generic
	and abstract, and includes every thing, entity, or action that can be
	identified, named, addressed, handled, or performed in any way on the Web.
	In a RESTful Web service, requests made to a resource's URI elicit a
	response with a payload formatted in HTML, XML, JSON, or some other format.
	For example, the response can confirm that the resource state has been
	changed. The response can also include hypertext links to related resources.
	The most common protocol for these requests and responses is HTTP. It
	provides operations (HTTP methods) such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. By
	using a stateless protocol and standard operations, RESTful systems aim for
	fast performance, reliability, and the ability to grow by reusing components
	that can be managed and updated without affecting the system as a whole,
	even while it is running.

	The goal of REST is to increase performance, scalability, simplicity,
	modifiability, visibility, portability, and reliability. This is achieved
	through following REST principles such as a client–server architecture,
	statelessness, cacheability, use of a layered system, support for code on
	demand, and using a uniform interface. These principles must be followed for
	the system to be classified. 