Process

A process is basically a program in execution. The execution of a process must
progress in a sequential fashion.

    A process is defined as an entity which represents the basic unit of work to
    be implemented in the system.

To put it in simple terms, we write our computer programs in a text file and
when we execute this program, it becomes a process which performs all the tasks
mentioned in the program.

When a program is loaded into the memory and it becomes a process, it can be
divided into four sections ─ stack, heap, text and data.

Stack

	The process Stack contains the temporary data such as method/function
	parameters, return address and local variables.	

Heap

	This is dynamically allocated memory to a process during its run time.

Text

	This includes the current activity represented by the value of Program
	Counter and the contents of the processor's registers.	

Data

	This section contains the global and static variables.

A program is a piece of code which may be a single line or millions of lines.

A computer program is a collection of instructions that performs a specific task
when executed by a computer. When we compare a program with a process, we can
conclude that a process is a dynamic instance of a computer program.

A part of a computer program that performs a well-defined task is known as an
algorithm. A collection of computer programs, libraries and related data are
referred to as a software.

	When a process executes, it passes through different states. These stages
	may differ in different operating systems, and the names of these states are
	also not standardized.

In general, a process can have one of the following five states at a time.

Start

	This is the initial state when a process is first started/created.	

Ready

	The process is waiting to be assigned to a processor. Ready processes are
	waiting to have the processor allocated to them by the operating system so
	that they can run. Process may come into this state after Start state or
	while running it by but interrupted by the scheduler to assign CPU to some
	other process.

Running

	Once the process has been assigned to a processor by the OS scheduler, the
	process state is set to running and the processor executes its instructions.
	

Waiting

	Process moves into the waiting state if it needs to wait for a resource,
	such as waiting for user input, or waiting for a file to become available.	

Terminated or Exit

	Once the process finishes its execution, or it is terminated by the
	operating system, it is moved to the terminated state where it waits to be
	removed from main memory.

Process Control Block (PCB)

	A Process Control Block is a data structure maintained by the Operating
	System for every process. The PCB is identified by an integer process ID
	(PID). A PCB keeps all the information needed to keep track of a process as
	listed below in the table

	Process State

		The current state of the process i.e., whether it is ready, running,
		waiting, or whatever.

	Process privileges

		This is required to allow/disallow access to system resources.

	Process ID

		Unique identification for each of the process in the operating system.

	Pointer

		A pointer to parent process.

	Program Counter

		Program Counter is a pointer to the address of the next instruction to
		be executed for this process.

	CPU registers

		Various CPU registers where process need to be stored for execution for
		running state.

	CPU Scheduling Information

		Process priority and other scheduling information which is required to
		schedule the process.

	Memory management information

		This includes the information of page table, memory limits, Segment
		table depending on memory used by the operating system.

	Accounting information

		This includes the amount of CPU used for process execution, time limits,
		execution ID etc.

	IO status information

		This includes a list of I/O devices allocated to the process.