What is your name?
Joshua Henriques

Tell me about yourself?
1. Start by describing your background with a summary of your most impressive responsibilities: "I've been a hostess at XYZ Restaurant for just over two years where I greet and seat customers, assess wait times, fulfill to-go orders and answer the phones. I love the lively and busy environment—we often have Friday and Saturday wait times of one hour or more...”

2. Next, briefly summarize your previous experience with key achievements: "...Before working at XYZ Restaurant, I worked in retail as a floor associate for five years. Working in retail developed the customer service skills that make me a great hostess, offering a top-tier dining experience from the moment customers walk in the door. It also equipped me with the ability to work quickly under pressure..."

3. Lastly, express how you found the new job and why it's a good fit for you and your goals: "...I've enjoyed and grown in my current role, but wish to expand and utilize my customer service expertise in an elite restaurant environment. I am interested in your restaurant because of its reputation for delivering first-in-class service to your patrons in a lively, dynamic environment.”

1. Start by discussing your current situation.
	Explain your current role and highlight major, relevant achievements and responsibilities

What got you into web dev and backend and devops

What qualities make a good leader?

What do you know about our company?

Can you walk us through your resume?

Why is our company interesting to you?

Who are our competitors?

Why are you the right person for this job?

What is your greatest personal achievement?

Where do you see yourself in 10 years?

Describe a time when your boss was wrong. How did you handle the situation?

Describe a time you went above and beyond at work.

Tell me about the last mistake you made.

What are my strengths?
Leadership
Communication
Not Quitting till I understand or solve a problem, not giving

What are my weaknesses?

What are three skills or traits you wish you had?

Tell me about how you dealt with a difficult challenge in the workplace.

Describe a time when you had to give a person difficult feedback.

How much do you expect to be paid?

What differentiates you from our other candidates?

Are you more of a leader or a follower?

Common questions for projects
Challenges
Mistakes/Failures
Enjoyed
Leadership
Conflicts
What you'd do differently

Questions for the interviewer:
?????