A Record

	A (address) records are one of the most basic and commonly used DNS record
	types. They translate domain names and store them as IP addresses. A records
	can only hold IPv4 addresses.

	Domain name:			Record type:	Value:		TTL
	example-website.com @	A				192.0.0.1	14400

AAAA Record

	AAAA records work the same as A records in that they store IP addresses
	connected to domain names. The only difference is that AAAA records hold
	IPv6 addresses.

AA Record

	CAA records allow domain owners to determine which certificate authorities
	can issue certificates to that domain and all its subdomains. If there is no
	CAA record, anyone can issue certificates to the domain.

	Domain name:			Record type:	Flag:	Tag:	CA:
	example-webisite.com	CAA				0		issue	"caa-domain.com"	

CERT Record

	CERT records provide a space for storing certificates and related
	certificate revocation lists (CRL). The certificates can verify the
	authenticity of sending and receiving parties, while CRLs identify
	unauthorized parties.

CNAME Record

	A CNAME (canonical name) record is used instead of an A record if a domain
	is an alias for another domain. Because of this, all CNAME records point to
	a domain instead of an IP address.

	For example, in a domain called alias-domain.com which works as an alias for
	real-domain.com, a CNAME record for would look like this:

	Domain name:		Record type:	Value:				TTL
	alias-domain.com @	CNAME			real-domain.com		14400

DNAME Record

	DNAME records are used to create an alias for every subdomain of a domain.
	They are similar to CNAME records, with the main difference being that CNAME
	can only store a single alias domain without any subdomains.

MX Record

	MX (mail exchange) records store instructions for directing emails to mail
	servers following the SMTP protocol. An MX record might look like:

	Domain name:			Record type:	Priority:	Value:						TTL:
	example-website.com @	MX				10			mail.example-website.com	14400

PTR Record

	PTR (pointer) records serve as an inverse of A or AAAA records. They map IP
	addresses to domain names and help perform reverse DNS lookups.

	PTR records store IP addresses in reverse:

    	IPv4 addresses are saved with the segments in reverse order.
    	IPv6 addresses are saved in the reverse order of hexadecimal digits.

TXT Record

	TXT (text) records are used to store descriptive text. They are often used
	in combination with other record types to provide additional information
	that doesn't fit the format of other records.